Now in the last session we were designing wire frames for our Franklin e-commerce store and now is the
time that we are moving to the development phase.
Now in the design we had prototypes we had wire frames which were the bread and butter and the end result
of our whole user experience design research and whole use of expensive design documentations.
Now in this session we are actually moving to a development phase and there are few things I want to
make sure that you understand that on your development side there will be a lot of decisions based on
speed of response of some system or response time time off any Web site or servers or maybe some limitations
are different frameworks so you are going to as a UI designer or Unix designer you are going to work
closely with the development department or the developers.
So in my case of Franklin we I had two options like going with the WordPress which is along with e-commerce
or commerce which is a plugin and we can also go with Shopify which is another solution for e-commerce
stores.
So Shopify is good for you can send novice users or beginners so I might add you know went towards that.
It is also a bit faster than commerce.
Well Commerce is a plugin so it might be a little bit an option off performance anyhow before going
into full production and you know building a whole Web site.
We are going to build a dummy website dummy means that we will have everything like we had in our VAR
frames but we will have like 15 or 20 or just 30 domain products data.
It is very easy these days a lot of these frameworks these online solutions e-commerce solutions they
let you export or import data and load it the dummy data into your store.
So just request it out.
So on my B.S. I have some development background a bit of development background so I installed a local
server and I am using filled it with some simple data and I am using Wordpress with Ru commerce.
This is a plug in WordPress plus commerce is a plug in solution for e-commerce websites.
So this is actually will save you a lot of time so why I actually did this and your developers might
also do that because before you know going into more details and you know configuring the whole website
or uploading like thousand on maybe five hundred of different actual images of products you need to
test it you need to test run it with few users you need to do some usability tests so that is why we
are going to work with our developers to come up with a solution that is you can see a dummy solution
having some dummy data with just few products just to see how actually we have reached to our level
of user satisfaction.
So that is all I wanted to show you.
I am going to show you know the example where actually I am right now testing.
So let's see that now you can see this looks very empty but we have most of our bits and pieces together
like you can see here we have logo and the tag line then we have the location then we have whatsapp
number then we have email then we have few social social links we don't have right now is a big such
borrower here maybe we want our developers to you know change it a bit.
You can say every time you use this is a free Wordpress theme I'm using this is a free team.
So these are actually the functionalities we have very good card.
Then we have sharp dresses These are the different categories we discussed and we are also going to
make them into two different menus over here.
This will be down and one will be above then we have seals and deals.
Stuff I haven't configured everything.
Then we have featured categories like singles or clothing or whatever 50 percent of still some of the
data is missing.
But this is actually going to work for us to be testing with our users.
You can see there are a few feature products then we have something from our blog and news then we have
the footer.
We have free shipping and then we also need to post this at the top in our header section.
Free shipping in return.
Also money back guarantee and 27 for 7 support something like that.
We already have our phone number.
Everything up there.
This is our address and things like that.
So this will be our starting point for our development.
We are not going to go into full fledged and Web site or developed app.
I have worked previously with a software firm in the UK United Kingdom and there was a guy I used to
work with.
He was a project manager and they choose to develop few mobile games mobile app games and what they
had actually.
Whenever I designed a new wireframe or you can say user experience solution for them they had game engine
ready for prototyping so actually what they did they had like just in this case I had Vu commerce or
e-commerce and I just used the dummy data.
Similarly they had a whole set of dummy game built already built behind the scenes and just the use
that engine and attach it to them.
You can say that interface that is also it was very quick development.
They were using agile UX in their software how so software firm or agency whatever you call them.
I think I still remember that guy.
He was a great project manager and I am just telling you the story that most of the software houses
most of the intelligent and wise developers or coders they have the major engines or major modules already
built and just put together.
Just throw in the interface change bits and pieces over there and it starts working.
This is actually a new era of using modules based.
You can say age value X or angel method of developing something that you use different blocks and use
combine them and create a full product so in this case you are going to work closely with your development
team and you are going to tell them that we need these two things separated and we want to show these
should these categories we don't want them to hide in the dropdown because it will not be visible to
the users.
So we really want to who are our users to actually see them see these categories and select them rather
than you know having a dropdown.
Also we can move this my account and blog and contexts contact us at the top.
Now right now in this course I cannot develop a full fledged Web site right now.
We will use this dummy site to perform for few user testing usability tests in the next few lessons
that I'm going to share the reserves with one or two users because I don't have like five or 10 users
right now so I will do with one or two users you can do it with at least three to five users.
So I hope you have understood my idea that you need to work closely and how you will rapidly develop
your app or website if you have any questions to ask me.
Let's move on to the next lesson.